In this video we'll learn about the C plus plus 11 final specifier we can use the final specifier in
two contexts at the class level the final specifier prevents a class from being derived from or subclassed.
Sometimes frameworks have final classes it can't be subclassed.
In some cases this is done for better compiler optimization.
Other times it may be done to ensure that objects are copied safely without slicing when used that the
method or function level the final specifier prevents the method from being overridden.
In derived classes this can also be done for better compiler optimization.
The syntax for using the final specifier at the class level is pretty simple.
We simply add the final specifier after the class name when we declare it in the first example my class
cannot be derived from.
And in the second example derived cannot be derived from.
If you try to drive a class from these classes the compiler will generate a compiler error.
Now let's see the final specifier in the context of a virtual function.
In this case we have a simple class hierarchy with three classes A B and C.
The base class A declares the function do something is virtual.
Class B is derived from AA and it overrides do something.
But it also marks it as final.
So do something can no longer be overridden.
Further down in the hierarchy.
Notice that if Class C tries to override do something the compiler generates an error.